lab1/chapter4/part3.md, before:

# Part 3
The approach adopted to adapt [the given English grammar](https://github.com/harisont/comp-syntax-2020/blob/master/lab1/chapter4/English.dbnf) to [Spanish](https://github.com/harisont/comp-syntax-2020/blob/master/lab1/chapter4/Spanish.dbnf) is to simply see what problems the Spanish syntax trees generated by gf-ud present and modify the grammar accordingly, __starting from the observations listed in [part2.md](https://github.com/harisont/comp-syntax-2020/blob/master/lab1/chapter4/part2.md)__.

1. Nothing to be fixed excpepts allowing punctuation both at the beginning and end of an utterance (a better solution would be to specif that only the pairs "¿?" and "¡!" are allowed)
2. This one is not easy to fix, as one of the things I do not understand about the GF RGL is how to deal with adverbial phrases.
3. Here, one of the main problems is that, in Spanish, it is harder to distinguish `QS`s from `S`s, because the word order (apart from not being the same as in English) does not change. Another important issue is that the subject of a sentence can be implicit. What I did to adjust the grammar was to:
  - make the subject optional for all `S`s
  - change the rules for `QS`s and `S`s, moving the negation to the beginning of the sentence
  - cheat a little bit by assigning very low weight to `SC ::= QS`
4. After these changes, the sentence is not interpreted as an `Imp` any longer, but the parse is still wrong:
![parse tree][pt.png]
Changes made:
  - added an optional additional determiner to `NP ::= Det? CN # det det head` (for "los otros", assuming it is right to consider "otros" a determiner)
  - changed weights so that VP coordination becomes much more likely than NP coordination (I don't think this is a good idea, but the other things I tried were not helpful)
Other important changes made:
- structural word lexicon
- removed all rules involving "do"
- removed all rules involving "there"

Commit message:

Made all fixes based on hand drawn trees.

lab1/chapter4/part3.md, after:

# Part 3
The approach adopted to adapt [the given English grammar](https://github.com/harisont/comp-syntax-2020/blob/master/lab1/chapter4/English.dbnf) to [Spanish](https://github.com/harisont/comp-syntax-2020/blob/master/lab1/chapter4/Spanish.dbnf) is to simply see what problems the Spanish syntax trees generated by gf-ud present and modify the grammar accordingly, __starting from the observations listed in [part2.md](https://github.com/harisont/comp-syntax-2020/blob/master/lab1/chapter4/part2.md)__.

1. Nothing to be fixed excepts allowing punctuation both at the beginning and end of an utterance (a better solution would be to specif that only the pairs "¿?" and "¡!" are allowed)
2. This one is not easy to fix, as one of the things I do not understand about the GF RGL is how to deal with adverbial phrases.
3. Here, one of the main problems is that, in Spanish, it is harder to distinguish `QS`s from `S`s, because the word order (apart from not being the same as in English) does not change. Another important issue is that the subject of a sentence can be implicit. What I did to adjust the grammar was to:
  - make the subject optional for all `S`s
  - change the rules for `QS`s and `S`s, moving the negation to the beginning of the sentence
  - cheat a little bit by assigning very low weight to `SC ::= QS`
4. After these changes, the sentence is not interpreted as an `Imp` any longer, but the parse is still wrong:
![parse tree 1][pt1.png]
Changes made:
  - added an optional additional determiner to `NP ::= Det? CN # det det head` (for "los otros", assuming it is right to consider "otros" a determiner)
  - changed weights so that VP coordination becomes much more likely than NP coordination (I don't think this is a good idea, but the other things I tried were not helpful)
5. Nothing to change
6. After the changes mentioned above (and below), the sentence does gets parsed correctly (finally something satisfying!)

Changes made after looking at sentences I don't have hand-drawn trees to compare to:

- 

Other changes made not depending on any particular sentence:

- translated (part of the) lexicon
- removed all rules involving "do"
- removed all rules involving "there"
